I AHEAD I WILL
LEAVE THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
BUT I WILL NEVER LEAVE THE WORK.
>> Wooduff: ERIC HOLDER
ANNOUNCED HE'S STEPPING DOWN AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
WE EXAMINE HOW HIS TENURE
CHANGED THE NATION'S JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, AT THE
UNITED NATIONS, WORLD LEADERS
FOCUSED ON HOW TO CONTAIN THE
EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
WE TALK WITH THE HEAD OF DOCTORS
WITHOUT BORDERS ABOUT CONDITIONS
ON THE FRONTLINES IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST THE DEADLY VIRUS.
>> Wooduff: PLUS, CHANGING THE
FACE OF PUBLIC SERVICE IN
CALIFORNIA BY TRAINING YOUNG
BLACK AND LATINO MEN TO BECOME
EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONDERS.
>> PUBLIC AGENCIES ARE NOW
LOOKING AT THE COMMUNITY IN A
DIFFERENT LIGHT, BECAUSE NOW
ONCE THEY SEE THE YOUNG MEN FROM
OUR PROGRAM, IT BREAKS DOWN THE
STEREOTYPES THAT SOME FOLKS MAY
HAVE HAD TOWARD YOUNG MEN OF
COLOR.
>> Wooduff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON TALLIED
THE DAMAGE TODAY FROM U.S. AND
ARAB AIR STRIKES THAT BLASTED
OIL INSTALLATIONS HELD BY
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES IN SYRIA.
THEY REPRESENT A KEY SOURCE OF
FUNDING FOR THE MILITANTS UP TO
$2 MILLION A DAY IN BLACK MARKET
OIL SALES.
AT THE PENTAGON, REAR ADMIRAL
JOHN KIRBY SAID THE STRIKES WERE
SUCCESSFUL, BUT THERE'S MUCH
MORE TO DO.
>> THEY STILL HAVE FINANCING AT
THEIR FINGERTIPS.
THEY STILL HAVE PLENTY OF
VOLUNTEERS.
WEAPONS AND VEHICLES AND THE
THEY STILL HAVE PLENTY OF
ABILITY TO MOVE AROUND.
WEAPONS AND VEHICLES AND THE
THEY STILL CONTROL A SIDED WITH
ABILITY TO MOVE AROUND.
SWATH INSIDE IRAQ, NO QUESTION
THEY STILL CONTROL A SIDED WITH
ABOUT IT.
SWATH INSIDE IRAQ, NO QUESTION
THIS IS JUST, AS I SAID THE
ABOUT IT.
OTHER DAY, AND I WANT THE STATE
THIS IS JUST, AS I SAID THE
IT AGAIN, THI  THE
OTHER DAY, AND I WANT THE STATE
BEGINNING.
IT AGAIN, THI  THE
>> Ifill: SYRIAN ACTIVISTS
BEGINNING.
REPORTED CIVILIANS WERE KILLED
>> Ifill: SYRIAN ACTIVISTS
IN LAST NIGHT'S ATTACKS, BUT
REPORTED CIVILIANS WERE KILLED
ADMIRAL KIRBY SAID THERE IS NO
IN LAST NIGHT'S ATTACKS, BUT
CREDIBLE INFORMATION TO SUPPORT
ADMIRAL KIRBY SAID THERE IS NO
THAT CLAIM.
CREDIBLE INFORMATION TO SUPPORT
MEANWHILE, F.B.I. DIRECTOR JAMES
THAT CLAIM.
COMEY SAID THE U.S. MAY HAVE
MEANWHILE, F.B.I. DIRECTOR JAMES
IDENTIFIED THE ISLAMIC STATE
COMEY SAID THE U.S. MAY HAVE
MILITANT IN VIDEO BEHEADINGS OF
IDENTIFIED THE ISLAMIC STATE
TWO AMERICAN JOURNALISTS AND A
MILITANT IN VIDEO BEHEADINGS OF
BRITISH AID WORKER.
TWO AMERICAN JOURNALISTS AND A
THE MAN HAS A BRITISH ACCENT,
BRITISH AID WORKER.
BUT COMEY WOULD NOT GIVE HIS
THE MAN HAS A BRITISH ACCENT,
NAME OR NATIONALITY.
BUT COMEY WOULD NOT GIVE HIS
>> Wooduff: IRAQ NOW SAYS IT HAS
NAME OR NATIONALITY.
INTELLIGENCE OF AN ALLEGED PLOT
>> Wooduff: IRAQ NOW SAYS IT HAS
BY ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS TO
INTELLIGENCE OF AN ALLEGED PLOT
ATTACK SUBWAYS IN THE U.S. AND
BY ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS TO
FRANCE.
ATTACK SUBWAYS IN THE U.S. AND
PRIME MINISTER HAIDER AL ABADI
FRANCE.
SAID TODAY HE'S RECEIVED
PRIME MINISTER HAIDER AL ABADI
CREDIBLE INFORMATION OF AN
SAID TODAY HE'S RECEIVED
ACTIVE THREAT.
CREDIBLE INFORMATION OF AN
SENIOR U.S. AND FRENCH OFFICIALS
ACTIVE THREAT.
SAID THEY HAD NO EVIDENCE OF A
SENIOR U.S. AND FRENCH OFFICIALS
PLOT.
SAID THEY HAD NO EVIDENCE OF A
BUT NYC'S POLICE DEPARTMENT
PLOT.
ADDED MORE OFFICERS.
BUT NYC'S POLICE DEPARTMENT
>> Ifill: IRAN'S PRESIDENT
ADDED MORE OFFICERS.
HASSAN ROUHANI CHARGED TODAY
>> Ifill: IRAN'S PRESIDENT
THAT OUTSIDERS BEAR THE BLAME
HASSAN ROUHANI CHARGED TODAY
FOR THE RISE OF ISLAMIC STATE
THAT OUTSIDERS BEAR THE BLAME
AND OTHER EXTREMISTS.
FOR THE RISE OF ISLAMIC STATE
HE TOLD THE U.N. GENERAL
AND OTHER EXTREMISTS.
ASSEMBLY THAT CERTAIN
HE TOLD THE U.N. GENERAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HELPED
ASSEMBLY THAT CERTAIN
FUND AND SUPPORT SUCH GROUPS.
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HELPED
THAT WAS TAKEN AS A REFERENCE TO
FUND AND SUPPORT SUCH GROUPS.
THE U.S. AND ISRAEL.
THAT WAS TAKEN AS A REFERENCE TO
ROUHANI ALSO CHALLENGED U.S.
THE U.S. AND ISRAEL.
LEADERSHIP OF A COALITION.
ROUHANI ALSO CHALLENGED U.S.
>> ( translated ): IT IS A
LEADERSHIP OF A COALITION.
STRATEGIC MISTAKE IF SOME
>> ( translated ): IT IS A
COUNTRIES UNDER THE PRETEXT OF
STRATEGIC MISTAKE IF SOME
THE LEADERSHIP OF THE COALITION
COUNTRIES UNDER THE PRETEXT OF
ARE IN FACT TRYING TO CONTINUE
THE LEADERSHIP OF THE COALITION
THEIR HEGEMONY IN OUR REGION.
ARE IN FACT TRYING TO CONTINUE
OBVIOUSLY, SINCE THE PAIN IS
THEIR HEGEMONY IN OUR REGION.
BETTER KNOWN BY THE REGIONAL
OBVIOUSLY, SINCE THE PAIN IS
COUNTRIES, BETTER TOGETHER THEY
BETTER KNOWN BY THE REGIONAL
CAN FORM A COALITION TO SHOULDER
COUNTRIES, BETTER TOGETHER THEY
THE RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
CAN FORM A COALITION TO SHOULDER
LEADERSHIP OF THE FIGHT.
THE RESPONSIBILITY AND THE
>> Ifill: THE IRANIAN LEADER
LEADERSHIP OF THE FIGHT.
ALSO SAID A DEAL ON HIS
>> Ifill: THE IRANIAN LEADER
COUNTRY'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM IS
ALSO SAID A DEAL ON HIS
POSSIBLE BY A NOVEMBER DEADLINE
COUNTRY'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM IS
IF THE WEST IS FLEXIBLE.
POSSIBLE BY A NOVEMBER DEADLINE
>> Wooduff: A CRUISE LINER IN
IF THE WEST IS FLEXIBLE.
THE MEDITERRANEAN RESCUED MORE
>> Wooduff: A CRUISE LINER IN
THAN 300 PEOPLE FROM A SMALL
THE MEDITERRANEAN RESCUED MORE
BOAT OFF CYPRUS TODAY.
THAN 300 PEOPLE FROM A SMALL
THEY'RE BELIEVED TO BE REFUGEES
BOAT OFF CYPRUS TODAY.
FLEEING SYRIA.
THEY'RE BELIEVED TO BE REFUGEES
THE PACKED VESSEL HAD BEEN
FLEEING SYRIA.
STRANDED ABOUT 50 MILES OFF
THE PACKED VESSEL HAD BEEN
SOUTHWESTERN CYPRUS, AND THE
STRANDED ABOUT 50 MILES OFF
COASTAL TOWN OF PAPHOS.
SOUTHWESTERN CYPRUS, AND THE
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY
COASTAL TOWN OF PAPHOS.
DIED AT SEA THIS YEAR, TRYING TO
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY
SAIL FROM THE MIDDLE EAST OR
DIED AT SEA THIS YEAR, TRYING TO
NORTH AFRICA, TO EUROPE.
SAIL FROM THE MIDDLE EAST OR
>> Ifill: A WOMAN BEATEN BY A
NORTH AFRICA, TO EUROPE.
CALIFORNIA STATE TROOPER IS
>> Ifill: A WOMAN BEATEN BY A
GETTING $1.5 MILLION IN A
CALIFORNIA STATE TROOPER IS
SETTLEMENT.
GETTING $1.5 MILLION IN A
THE INCIDENT INVOLVING MARLENE
SETTLEMENT.
PINNOCK WAS CAPTURED ON VIDEO
THE INCIDENT INVOLVING MARLENE
LAST JULY FIRST.
PINNOCK WAS CAPTURED ON VIDEO
PINNOCK IS BIPOLAR.
LAST JULY FIRST.
COURT DOCUMENTS SAY THE TROOPER
PINNOCK IS BIPOLAR.
TRIED TO PULL HER FROM ONCOMING
COURT DOCUMENTS SAY THE TROOPER
TRAFFIC ON A LOS ANGELES
TRIED TO PULL HER FROM ONCOMING
FREEWAY, AND SHE RESISTED.
TRAFFIC ON A LOS ANGELES
THE OFFICER HAS AGREED TO
FREEWAY, AND SHE RESISTED.
RESIGN.
THE OFFICER HAS AGREED TO
>> Wooduff: WALL STREET HIT THE
RESIGN.
SKIDS TODAY, DRIVEN PARTLY BY IN
>> Wooduff: WALL STREET HIT THE
APPLE.
SKIDS TODAY, DRIVEN PARTLY BY IN
THE TECH GIANT SANK NEARLY FOUR
APPLE.
RCENT AFTER IT HAD TO PULL A
THE TECH GIANT SANK NEARLY FOUR
TROUBLED SOFTWARE UPDATE FOR
RCENT AFTER IT HAD TO PULL A
iPHONES.
TROUBLED SOFTWARE UPDATE FOR
OVERALL, THE DOW JONES
iPHONES.
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST NEARLY
OVERALL, THE DOW JONES
258 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST NEARLY
16,952; THE NASDAQ FELL 88
258 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,466; AND
16,952; THE NASDAQ FELL 88
THE S&P 500 DROPPED NEARLY 32
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,466; AND
POINTS, TO 1,966.
THE S&P 500 DROPPED NEARLY 32
THE DECLINE CAME AMID TALK THAT
POINTS, TO 1,966.
THE MARKET IS OVERDUE FOR A
THE DECLINE CAME AMID TALK THAT
CORRECTION.
THE MARKET IS OVERDUE FOR A
>> Wooduff: STILL TO COME ON THE
CORRECTION.
NEWSHOUR.
>> Wooduff: STILL TO COME ON THE
EXAMINING ERIC HOLDER'S TENURE
NEWSHOUR.
AS ATTORNEY GENERAL.
EXAMINING ERIC HOLDER'S TENURE
THE CHALLENGES FOR HEALTH
AS ATTORNEY GENERAL.
WORKERS ON THE FRONT LINE IN THE
THE CHALLENGES FOR HEALTH
FIGHT TO CONTAIN EBOLA.
WORKERS ON THE FRONT LINE IN THE
HELPING YOUNG MEN OF COLOR IN
FIGHT TO CONTAIN EBOLA.
CALIFORNIA BY TRAINING THEM TO
HELPING YOUNG MEN OF COLOR IN
SAVE LIVES.
CALIFORNIA BY TRAINING THEM TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA CREATES THE
SAVE LIVES.
WORLD'S LARGEST MARINE PRESERVE
PRESIDENT OBAMA CREATES THE
IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
WORLD'S LARGEST MARINE PRESERVE
AND, HOW BILLIONAIRES ARE
IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.
SHAPING AMERICAN POLITICS.
>> Ifill: ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER TENDERED HIS RESIGNATION
TODAY AFTER SIX YEARS AT THE
HELM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE.
WHEN HE OFFICIALLY STEPS DOWN,
HE WILL BE ONE OF THE LONGEST
SERVING AND MOST CONTROVERSIAL
MEMBERS OF PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
CABINET.
THE PRESIDENT AND HIS TOP LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER ENTERED THE
WHITE HOUSE STATE DINING ROOM
LATE THIS AFTERNOON.
>> AS YOUNGER MEN, ERIC AND I
BOTH STUDIED LAW, AND I CHOSE
HIM TO SERVE AS ATTORNEY GENERAL
BECAUSE HE BELIEVES, AS I DO,
THAT JUSTICE IS NOT JUST AN
ABSTRACT THEORY.
IT'S A LIVING AND BREATHING
PRINCIPLE.
>> I'M PROUD TO CALL YOU MY
FRIEND.
>> I HAVE LOVED THE DEPT OF
JUSTICE EVER SINCE A YOUNG BOY,
I WATCHED ROBERT KENNEDY HOW THE
DEPARTMENT CAN AND MUST BE A
FORCE FOR THAT WHICH IS RIGHT.
I HOPE I HAVE DONE HONOR TO
FAITH YOU PLACED IN ME AND TO
THE LEGACY OF ALL THOSE WHO HAVE
SERVED BEFORE ME.
>> Ifill: ERIC HOLDER BECAME THE
NATION'S FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN
ATTORNEY GENERAL IN 2009.
HE QUICKLY BECAME A LIGHTNING
ROD FOR CRITICISM, FIRST OVER
KHALED SHEIK MOHAMMED, THE 9/11
MASTERMIND.
HOLDER WANTED A CIVILIAN TRIAL
IN NEW YORK, BUT WAS FORCED TO
LEAVE IT WITH A MILITARY
COMMISSION AT GUANTANAMO.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ALSO DREW
HEAVY PARTISAN FIRE OVER
OPERATION FAST AND FURIOUS, A
BOTCHED GUN-RUNNING
INVESTIGATION IN THE SOUTHWEST.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS CITED HIM FOR
CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS FOR
ALLEGEDLY WITHHOLDING DOCUMENTS.
AND HOLDER CLASHED PUBLICLY WITH
HOUSE OVERSIGHT CHAIRMAN DARRELL
ISSA.
>> YOU DIDN'T WANT US TO SEE THE
DETAILS, MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL.
>> NO, NO, I'M NOT GOING TO STOP
TALKING NOW.
WHEN YOU CHARACTERIZE SOMETHING
AS--
( TALKING OVER EACH OTHER )
IT'S TOO CONSISTENT WITH THE WAY
IN WHICH YOU CONDUCT YOURSELF AS
A MEMBER OF CONGRESS.
IT'S UNACCEPTABLE AND IT'S
SHAMEFUL.
>> Wooduff: HOLDER REJECTED
DEMANDS THAT HE RESIGN, AND TOLD
THE NEWSHOUR TODAY IN A PHONE
INTERVIEW: "TO THOSE WHO THINK
THAT THEY FORCED ME OUT, I HATE
TO BREAK THEIR HEARTS, BUT
THAT'S TOTALLY UNTRUE."
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS FOCUSED
INSTEAD ON MAJOR CIVIL LIBERTIES
ISSUES INCLUDING GAY MARRIAGE.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, HE TOLD HIS
STATE COUNTERPARTS THEY ARE NOT
OBLIGATED TO DEFEND BANS ON GAY
UNIONS.
>> I BELIEVE THAT WE MUST BE
SUSPICIOUS OF LEGAL
SED SOLELY ON
SEXUAL ORIENTATION.
AND WE MUST ENDEAVOR IN ALL OF
OUR EFFORTS TO UPHOLD AND
ADVANCE THE VALUES THAT ONCE LED
OUR FORBEARERS TO DECLARE
UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT ALL ARE
CREATED EQUAL AND ENTITLED TO
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
>> Ifill: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ALSO VOWED TO FIND NEW WAYS TO
PROTECT MINORITY VOTERS, AFTER
THE SUPREME COURT INVALIDATED
PART OF THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT
LAST YEAR.
>> WE CANNOT ALLOW THE SLOW
UNRAVELING OF THE PROGRESS THAT
SO MANY, THROUGHOUT HISTORY,
HAVE SACRIFICED SO MUCH TO
ACHIEVE.
>> Wooduff: MORE RECENTLY,
HOLDER PUSHED TO SHORTEN PRISON
TERMS FOR MANY NON-VIOLENT
OFFENDERS.
HE SINGLED OUT DRUG SENTENCING
IN A NEWSHOUR INTERVIEW THIS
PAST SUMMER.
>> IF YOU ARE BASING A SENTENCE
ON SOMETHING OTHER THAN THE
CONDUCT OF THE PERSON WHO WAS
INVOLVED, AND THE PERSON'S
RECORD, IF YOU'RE LOOKING, FOR
INSTANCE, AT FACTORS OF WHAT
EDUCATIONAL LEVEL THE PERSON HAS
RECEIVED, WHAT NEIGHBORHOOD THE
PERSON COMES FROM
>> Ifill: TO BE CLEAR, SOME
STATES ARE DOING THAT ALREADY.
>> THEY ARE.
RIGHT, AND USING THAT AS A
PREDICTOR, THOUGH, OF HOW LIKELY
THIS PERSON, THIS INDIVIDUAL IS
GOING TO BE A RECIDIVIST I'M NOT
AT ALL CERTAIN I'M COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT.
>> Wooduff: AND LAST MONTH, HE
ANNOUNCED A FULL-SCALE
INVESTIGATION OF THE POLICE IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI.
THAT FOLLOWED VIOLENT CLASHES
OVER THE DEATH OF AN UNARMED
BLACK TEEN-AGER MICHAEL BROWN AT
THE HANDS OF A WHITE OFFICER.
>> I PROMISED THAT THE UNITED
STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WOULD CONTINUE TO STAND WITH THE
PEOPLE THERE LONG AFTER THE
NATIONAL HEADLINES HAD FADED.
>> Wooduff: HOLDER LEAVES UNDONE
A PROMISED UPDATE OF RACIAL
PROFILING RULES FOR F.B.I.
AGENTS.
IT'S EXPECTED TO INCLUDE
RELIGION, GENDER AND SEXUAL
ORIENTATION.
ALSO UNRESOLVED, A REQUEST FOR
MORE IMMIGRATION JUDAT
BORDER.
SO FAR, CONGRESS HAS BALKED AT
FUNDING THE IDEA.
>> Ifill: WE EXAMINE ERIC
HOLDER'S TENURE AND LEGACY WITH:
TONY WEST, WHO SERVED AS
HOLDER'S ASSOCIATE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, UNTIL STEPPING DOWN
EARLIER THIS MONTH.
AND, HANS VON SPAKOVSKY, A
SENIOR LEGAL FELLOW AT THE
CONSERVATIVE HERITAGE FOUNDATION
AND CO-AUTHOR OF "OBAMA'S
ENFORCER: ERIC HOLDER'S JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT."
TONY WEST, HE WAS YOUR BOSS FOR
A LONG TIME.
THERE WHAT IS HIS LEGACY?
>> I THINK HIS LEGACY WILL
DEFINITELY INCLUDE CIVIL RIGHTS,
MAKING HISTORIC GAINS IN CIVIL
RIGHTS, AS WELL AS REFORMING OUR
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM,
PARTICULARLY WHEN IT COMES TO
DEFENDING OUR RIGHTS AT A TIME
WHEN THOSE RIGHTS ARE UNDER
ATTACK.
I THINK IT WILL ALSO INCLUDE
LOOKING AT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM WHERE WE HAVE A CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM THAT TOO OFTEN
MANIFESTS DIVISIONS ALONG RACE
AND CROSSLINES.
ERIC HOLDER IS SOMEONE WHO HAS
NOT BEEN AFRAID TO TAKE THOSE ON
AND TO TRY TO CHANGE THAT.
I BELIEVE THAT WILL BE PART OF
HIS LONG-TERM LEGACY.
>> Ifill: HANS VON SPAKOVSKY,
WHAT IS YOUR IDEA OF HIS LEGACY?
>> WELL, FRANKLY I WELCOME THE
RESIGNATION TODAY, AND SO WOULD
ANYONE ELSE WHO BELIEVES IN THE
RULE OF LAW.
HE HAS POLITICIZED THE
DEPARTMENT TO AN EXTENT NEVER
SEEN BEFORE.
IN FACT,E OF THE CAREER
LAWYERS THAT WE INTERVIEWED FOR
THE BOOK, WHO WAS HIRED DURING
THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION, TOLD
US THAT HE THOUGHT ERIC HOLDER
WAS THE WORST ATTORNEY GENERAL
SINCE MITCHELL UNDER NIXON, AND
THAT'S QUITE A STATEMENT COMING
FROM A CAREER LAWYER.
>> Ifill: WHAT DOES HE BASE
THAT ON?
>> HE BASES IT ON THE FACT THAT
THE DECISION-MAKING ON
PROSECUTIONS, RATHER THAN BEING
MADE ON THE OBJECTIVE AND FAIR
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE, HAS
OFTEN BEEN MADE ON IDEOLOGY AND
POLITICS.
A GREAT EXAMPLE OF THAT IS IN
THE CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION, WHERE
ACCORDING TO AN I.G. REPORT
ISSUED LAST YEAR, THE RACE
NEUTRALITY, WHICH HAS ALWAYS
BEEN THE POLICY OF THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT WHEN IT COMES TO
ENFORCING THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT,
WAS ENDED BECAUSE ERIC HOLDER
DID NOT BELIEVE IN THE RACE
NEUTRALITY OF ENFORCING THE
VOTING RIGHT.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK TONY WEST
TO RESPOND TO THAT?
>> WELL, AS SOMEONE WHO WAS
THERE IN THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT,
THAT JUST DOESN'T SEEM TO
COMPORT WITH THE FACTS.
THE FACT IS THAT WHEN YOU LOOK
AT WHERE THE DEPARTMENT HAS HAD
TO BE VERY AGGRESSIVE IN
DEFENDING VOTING RIGHTS AFTER
THE SUPREME COURT STRUCK DOWN
PART OF THAT ACT, THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT, ERIC HOLDER HAS LED.
SHE'S LED IN TEXAS.
HE'S LED IN NORTH CAROLINA WITH
INNOVATIVE LEGAL ARGUMENTS BASED
ON THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT,
SECTION 2.
WE'VE ALSO BEEN VERY ACTIVE IN
OHIO AND IN WISCONSIN IN
PARTICIPATING IN LAWSUITS THERE,
AS WELL.
SO I THINK IT'S ALMOST COMICAL
TO THINK THAT OF ANY ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER HAS NOT
STOOD VERY STRONG TO PROTECT THE
VOTING RIGHTS OF ALL AMERICANS.
I THINK THAT IS WHAT THE RECORD
SHOWS.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
ANOTHER ISSUE, WHICH IS THE
PROSECUTION OF CLERK WILL READ
KHALID SHEIK MOHAMMED.
THERE WAS MUCH PUSHBACK WHEN THE
PRESIDENT WANTED TO PROSECUTE
THEM IN DOWNTOWN NEW YORK IN THE
SHADOW OF WHERE THE TOWERS ONCE
STOOD.
HE TOLD ME TODAY WHEN I TALKED
TO HIM AT THE PHONE, HE SAID IF
HE HAD NOT BEEN FORCED TO
REVERSE HIMSELF AND SEND KHALID
SHEIK MOHAMMED TO A MILITARY
COURT HE WOULD BE ON DEATH ROW
RIGHT NOW.
>> DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS DID NOT
AGREE WITH THAT.
IT WAS A BILL THEY PASSED AND
AGREED TO THAT PREVENTED HIM
FROM DOING THAT.
I THINK THAT'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF WHAT HE'S DONE WRONG.
HE HAS BROUGHT BACK THE
CLINTON-EVERY ERA IDEA OF
TREATING TERRORISM AS A CRIMINAL
ACT.
WE SAW HOW SUCCESSFUL THAT WAS
IN 9/11, AND I DON'T THINK
THAT'S BEEN GOOD FOR NATIONAL
SECURITY.
IN THE SAME VEIN, HE'S OPENED UP
MORE LEAK INVESTIGATIONS OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION THAN ANY
PRIOR ATTORNEY GENERAL COMBINED.
THERE'S BEEN A DISTINCT PATTERN.
WHENEVER A LOW-LEVEL INDIVIDUAL
COULD BE FOUND TO BE PROSECUTED,
THEY'VE DONE, THAT BUT WHEN
LEAKS HAVE BEEN DIRECTLY TRACED
TO COMING OUT OF THE WHITE
HOUSE, LEAKS CLEARLY INTENDED TO
MAKE THE PRESIDENT LOOK LIKE HE
WAS TOUGH ON TERRORISM, THOSE
LEAK INVESTIGATIONS HAVE NOT
BEEN PURSUED AND HAVE NOT BEEN
PROSECUTED.
>> Ifill: TONY WEST?
>> CERTAINLY WHEN IT COMES TO
WHETHER OR IN THE OUR ARTICLE 3
COURTS, OUR CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM IS WELL EQUIPPED TO DEAL
WITH TERRORIST CASES, I THINK
ERIC HOLDER HAS BEEN VINDICATED
BY HISTORY.
WE SAW JUST THIS WEEK THE
CONVICTION AND THE SENTENCING TO
LIFE OF OSAMA BIN LADEN'S
SON-IN-LAW.
THAT WAS IN AN ARTICLE 3 COURT
IN MANHATTAN NO LESS.
WE'VE SEEN IT WITH ABU HANZA
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
I THINK IT'S QUITE CLEAR THAT
ONE OF THE GREAT PRINCIPLES OF
OUR JUSTICE SYSTEM IS THAT OUR
COURTS CAN HANDLE CASES LIKE
THIS.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT ERIC HOLDER
BELIEVED IN BACK THEN WHEN KFM
WAS THE ISSUE OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: THERE HAS BEEN BAD
BLOOD THIS CONGRESS, INCLUDING
MEMBERS OF HIS OWN PARTY, AS
MR. VON SPAKOVSKY POINTS OUT.
DID THAT HURT HIS ABILITY TO GET
THE JOB DONE?
>> I DON'T THINK SO ULTIMATELY.
OFTENTIMES WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT
THESE TYPES OF TENURES, ONLY IN
THE FULLNESS OF TIME ARE YOU
ABLE TO APPRECIATE HOW EFFECTIVE
AN ATTORNEY GENERAL OR PRESIDENT
HAS BEEN.
I THINK THAT WILL ALSO BE THE
CASE HERE.
THE FACT IS THAT CONTROVERSY IS
OFTEN THE LABORATORY OF
GREATNESS.
I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT SOME OF
THE CONTROVERSIAL STEPS THAT
OTHER ATTORNEYS GENERAL HAVE
TAKEN WHEN ATTORNEY GENERAL
KENNEDY INTEGRATED THE
UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA, THAT WAS
CONTROVERSIAL BUT IT WAS ALSO
RIGHT.
I THINK IF THERE'S ANYTHING YOU
CAN SAY ABOUT THIS ATTORNEY
GENERAL, HE'S NEVER SHRUNK FROM
DOING WHAT HE BELIEVED WAS
RIGHT.
>> Ifill: THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
IDENTIFIED TWO THINGS WHERE HE
THINKS NEXT INCOMING ATTORNEY
GENERAL CAN WORK WITH
REPUBLICANS, AND THAT'S ON
REFORMING OR REVIVING THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT AND ALSO ON
SENTENCING REFORM.
WE HAVE HEARD SOME CROSS-PARTY
AGREEMENT ON THOSE ISSUES.
DO YOU SEE MOVEMENT COMING ON
THOSE ISSUES NO MATTER WHO THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS?
>> WELL, THERE'S NO REASON TO
REVIVE THE PORTION OF THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT THAT WAS THROWN OUT
BY THE COURT.
THAT WAS AN EMERGENCY PROVISION
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY ONLY
SUPPOSED TO LAST FIVE YEARS.
THE REST OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT, SECTION 2, IS AN EFFECTIVE
TOOL AGAINST DISCRIMINATION.
THAT'S THE TOOL THAT HE'S BEEN
USING IN LAWSUITS AROUND THE
COUNTRY, ALTHOUGH HE HAS BEEN ME
UNTIL NY UNSUCCESSFUL SO FAR
IN MANY OF THOSE LAWSUITS
BECAUSE HE DOESN'T HAVE THE
EVIDENCE THERE TO ACTUALLY SHOW
THAT, FOR EXAMPLE, VOTER I.D. IS
DISCRIMINATORY.
>> Ifill: SO YOU DON'T SEE
MOVEMENT HAPPENING?
>> I DON'T.
ON CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM, I
ACTUALLY AGREE WITH HIM.
THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION ACTUALLY
BELIEVES THAT THERE ARE MANY
INSTANCES OF PEOPLE BEING
SENTENCED FOR CRIMES CRIMINALLY
THAT SHOULD NOT BE, THAT SHOULD,
FOR EXAMPLE, JUST HAVE CIVIL
FINES.
SOME OF THE SENTENCING LENGTHS
ARE TOO LONG.
AND THERE IS AN AREA I THINK
THAT BOTH PARTIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER ON.
>> Ifill: TONY WEST, MR. HANS
VON SPAKOVSKY EARLIER COMPARED
THIS OUTGOING ATTORNEY GENERAL
TO AN ATTORNEY WHO WAS, WHO
DEPARTED UNDER A CLOUD,
MITCHELL.
I NOTICED TODAY ONE OF THE FIRST
CALLS HE MADE NOTIFYING HIS
STEPPING DOWN WAS TO ETHEL
KENNEDY IS.
THAT WHO HE IDENTIFIES WITH?
>> HE'S CERTAINLY EARNED THE
COMPARISON.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE MAJOR
ISSUES, AND IF YOU JUST TAKE THE
CAUSE OF LGBT RIGHTS IN THIS
COUNTRY, ERIC HOLDER WAS ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY.
HE WAS ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF
HISTORY IN A WAY THAT NOT ONLY
ALLOWED THE DEPARTMENT TO
COMPORT WITH ITS TRADITIONAL
ROLE, BUT IN A WAY THAT ALLOWED
US TO MOVE FORWARD IN A WAY THAT
HAS TRANSFORMED THIS COUNTRY
EVER SINCE.
SO I THINK WHEN WE LOOK BACK AND
AGAIN IN THE FULLNESS OF TIME WE
CONSIDER HIS TENURE, WE CONSIDER
WHAT HE'S DONE IN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE REFORM, WE CONSIDER WHAT
HE'S DONE IN VOTING RIGHT, WE
CONSIDER WHAT HE'S DONE FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS, I THINK THERE'S NO
QUESTION THAT ERIC HOLDER WILL
BE ONE OF THE GREATEST ATTORNEYS
GENERAL THAT THE COUNTRY HAS
SEEN.
>> Ifill: WILL HE OUTLAST HIS
CRITICS, MR. VON SPAKOVSKY?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK GOING DOWN THE ROAD, THE
LEGACY THAT HE IS GOING TO BE
CONSIDERED TO HAVE IS NOT GOING
TO BE A GOOD ONE AND NOT ONE
THAT'S VERY COMPLIMENTARY TO
HIM.
>> Ifill: FINAL WORD.
>> WELL, I THINK ONLY TIME WILL
TELL, BUT ONE THING I LIKE TO
REMEMBER IS THAT WHEN YOU THINK
OF THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL
ATTORNEYS GENERAL WE'VE HAD IN
HISTORY, THE FULLNESS OF TIME
SHOWS THAT OFTENTIMES THEY WERE
ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY,
THEY WERE RIGHT THERE.
ARE MANY REASONS TO BELIEVE THAT
THIS ATTORNEY GENERAL WILL HAVE
THAT... WILL BE ABLE TO BE IN
THAT TYPE OF COMPANY.
>> OKAY.
WE'LL WAIT AND SEE WHO THE
PRESIDENT NOMINATES AND WHEN HE
NOMINATES SOMEONE TO SUCCEED
HIM.
HANS VON SPAKOVSKY, THE AUTHOR
OF "OBAMA'S ENFORCER," AND TONY
WEST, THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: NEXT, HOW TO CONTAIN
THE EBOLA OUTBREAK RAVAGING WEST
AFRICA?
THAT WAS THE MAIN QUESTION WORLD
LEADERS ADDRESSED AT TODAY'S
MEETING OF THE UNITED NATIONS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
>> THERE'S STILL A SIGNIFICANT
GAP BETWEEN WHERE WE ARE AND
WHERE WE NEED TO BE.
>> Wooduff: FROM PRESIDENT
OBAMA, A GRAVE APPRAISAL TODAY,
THAT THE WORLD HAS NOT DONE
ENOUGH TO STOP EBOLA.
>> IF WE MOVE FAST, EVEN IF
IMPERFECTLY, THEN THAT COULD
MEAN THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
10,000, 20,000, 30,000 DEATHS
VERSUS HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OR
EVEN A MILLION DEATHS.
>> Wooduff: THE PRESIDENT LAST
WEEK UNVEILED A BILLION DOLLAR
PLAN TO SEND U.S. MEDICAL AND
MILITARY SUPPORT TO WEST AFRICA.
TODAY, AT THE U.N., HE WARNED
FELLOW HEADS OF STATE THAT THEY
HAVE TO COMMIT AS WELL.
>> DO NOT STAND BY THINKING THAT
SOMEHOW, BECAUSE OF WHAT WE'VE
DONE, THAT IT'S TAKEN CARE OF.
IT'S NOT.
AND IF WE DON'T TAKE CARE OF
THIS NOW, WE ARE GOING TO SEE
FALLOUT EFFECTS AND SECONDARY
EFFECTS FROM THIS THAT WILL HAVE
RAMIFICATIONS FOR A LONG TIME,
ABOVE AND BEYOND THE LIVES THAT
WILL HAVE BEEN LOST.
>> Wooduff: THE WARNING CAME AS
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
ANNOUNCED EBOLA HAS NOW KILLED
MORE THAN 2,900 PEOPLE OUT OF
MORE THAN 6,200 CONFIRMED TO BE
INFECTED.
THE AGENCY ALSO SAID THE SPREAD
OF THE VIRUS NOW APPEARS TO BE
STABILIZING IN GUINEA, WHERE THE
OUTBREAK FIRST BEGAN.
FROM THERE, EBOLA HAS SINCE
SPREAD TO NEARBY SIERRA LEONE
AND LIBERIA.
SENEGAL AND NIGERIA HAVE ALSO
REPORTED CASES, BUT IT APPEARS
THE DISEASE HAS BEEN CONTAINED
THERE.
IN SIERRA LEONE TODAY, THE
GOVERNMENT SEALED OFF THREE NEW
DISTRICTS WHERE EBOLA OUTBREAKS
ARE FLARING.
THAT MEANS ONE-THIRD OF THE
COUNTRY'S SIX MILLION PEOPLE ARE
NOW UNDER QUARANTINE.
THE W.H.O. SAID TODAY THAT
LIBERIA ALONE NEEDS ANOTHER
1,500 BEDS FOR EBOLA PATIENTS.
AND IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA, DR. RICK
SACRA WAS RELEASED FROM A
HOSPITAL AFTER RECOVERING FROM
EBOLA.
HE'S THE THIRD AMERICAN AID
WORKER TO CONTRACT THE VIRUS IN
AFRICA.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT RECENT
CALLS FOR INCREASED URGENCY IN
ADDRESNG THE EBOLA OUTBREAK
AND AT CONDITIONS ON THE GROUND
IN WEST AFRICA.
TO DR. JOANNE LIU
PRESIDENT OF DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDERS.
AN ORGANIZATION AT THE FOREFRONT
OF THE EFFORT TO CONTAIN THE
EPIDEMIC.
DR. LIU, WELCOME.
FIRST OF ALL, I HAVE TO SAY, THE
NUMBER THAT JUMPED OUT AT ME
TODAY THIS MORNING WAS THAT 18%
OF THE PATIENTS IN LIBERIA
INFECTED WITH EBOLA, ONLY 18% OF
THEM ARE IN HOSPITALS OR PLACES
WHERE THEY CAN BE QUARANTINED.
IF THAT'S THE CASE, HOW DO YOU
HOPE TO GET CONTROL OF THIS?
>> WELL, WE DO HOPE IF THIS CAN
HAPPEN, ONLY THROUGH
MOBILIZATION, THAT'S THE REASON
WHY ON SEPTEMBER 2nd IN MY
U.N. REMARKS, I HAVE ASKED FOR
PEOPLE TO JUMP IN AND COME WITH
ASSETS IN TERMS OF BIG WORKFORCE
, TRAINED WITH CHAIN OF
COMMAND WHO CAN WORK IN A
RELATIONS CENTER.
>> Woodruff: WE HEARD
PRESIDENT OBAMA, AND WE REFERRED
TO THIS LAST WEEK, HE SAID THE
U.S. MILITARY HE SAID IS GOING
TO BUILD 17 NEW TREATMENT
CENTERS IN THE REGION, 1,700 NEW
BEDS.
HE'S GOING THE TRAIN, SAID,
500 HEALTH WORKERS A WEEK.
DOES ALL THIS SOUND REALISTIC TO
YOU?
>> WELL, I MUST SAY THAT I HAVE
SOME RESERVATIONS ON THOSE
STATEMENTS.
I THINK THAT RIGHT NOW IT'S
REALLY DIFFICULT TO FIND STAFF
TO BE TRAINED.
THE REA  REGION, AND
THESE ARE VERY CONSERVATIVE
FIGURES, BUT THERE'S 240 HEALTH
CARE STAFF THAT HAVE BEEN
INFECTED.
HALF OF THEM DIED.
WE KNOW IT'S M
THAT.
SO WHERE WILL WE FIND THOSE
PERSONNEL WHO WILL BE WILLING TO
COME?
THAT'S ANOTHER QUESTION?
>> WHERE ARE THOSE PERSONNEL
COMING FROM?
WHERE ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THEM,
THE HEALTH CARE WORKERS?
>> WELL, THE WORKFORCE RIGHT NOW
IS QUITE, I WILL SAY, DISPERSED.
MANY OF THEM HAVE FLEED FROM
HEALTH CARE CENTERS BECAUSE THEY
ARE COMPLETELY COLLAPSED.
WE KNOW THAT MOST OF THE
HOSPITALS, FOR EXAMPLE, IN
MAROVIA ARE NOT WORKING EXCEPT
SOME SMALL EMERGENCY FACILI
FOR OBSTETRICS.
SO RIGHT NOW THE HEALTH
PERSONNEL IS NOT WORKING.
SOME HAVE BEEN INFECTED.
AND WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY OF
THEM HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY EBOLA
SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: SO ARE YOU SAYING
THIS PLEDGE COMING FROM THE
UNITED STATES MAY NOT BE
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE FULFILLED?
>> I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A
REAL CHALLENGE TO SAY THE LEAST.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE?
IF IT'S NOT MILITARY, THE U.S.
IS SENDING MILITARY IN TO DO
THIS WORK OF BUILDING THESE
CENTERS, WHAT IS NEEDED?
>> WELL, WHAT IS NEEDED, IT'S
MORE THAN ONLY BUILDING
ISOLATION CENTERS.
AND THEN RUNNING AWAY FROM IT.
IT'S TO BUILD ISOLATION CENTERS
AND THEN HAVE A WORKFORCE,
OUTSIDE WORKFORCE FOR THE TIME
BEING TO COME AND STAFF THOSE
ISOLATION CENTERS.
AND THIS IS WHY WE ASKED FOR
HANDS-ON TODAY IN MY REMARKS.
IF WE DON'T STAFF THESE CENTERS,
THEY WILL NOT WORK.
THEY WILL NOT BE ABLE TO WELCOME
PATIENTS.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT KIND OF
SKILLS ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
WHAT ARE THE SKILLS THAT THE
PEOPLE WHO WOULD STAY WOULD NEED
TO HAVE?
>> WELL, BASICALLY YOU NEED TO
HAVE THE SKILLS OF I WOULD SAY A
HEALTH CARE WORKER THAT CAN WORK
WITH HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
SO WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
ANYTHING FANCY.
THERE'S A ROUTINE.
THIS IS WHY WE TALK ABOUT BEING
DISCIPLINED AND RIGOROUS, BUT IF
YOU FOLLOW THE RULES, THAT'S
FAIRLY EASY.
SO ANYONE WHO CAN FOLLOW RULES
AND BE A BIT RELIGIOUS ABOUT IT
WILL MANAGE.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
IT DOESN'T TAKE EXTENSIVE
TRAINING TO LEARN HOW TO DO
THESE JOBS?
>> IT DIDN'T REQUIRE EXTENSIVE
TRAINING IN TERMS OF WE'RE NOT
TALKING ABOUT GOING TO MED
SCHOOL FOR FIVE YEARS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A FEW DAYS
OF GETTING, I WOULD SAY, A
TRAINING.
AND AFTER THAT WHAT WE SHOULD
INVEST ON IS SORT OF WHAT WE
CALL A MORE INTENSE TRAINING
INSIGHT IN AN EBOLA CENTER OR
SIMULATION EBOLA CENTER.
>> THE QUESTION I THINK ON A LOT
OF PEOPLE'S MINDS, DR. LIU, IS
HOW DO YOU PERSUADE THESE
WORKERS TO COME AND ASSURE THEM
THEY'RE GOING TO BE SAFE, THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO GET EBOLA
THEMSELVES?
>> WELL, IT DEPENDS ABOUT WHICH
TYPE OF WORKER YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT.
BUT LOCALLY NATIONAL STAFF, WHEN
YOU TALK TO OUR STAFF IN OUR
CENTERS, THEY ALWAYS SAY,
PLEASE, KEEP EBOLA OUT OF MY
COUNTRY, AND THIS IS WHY.
THAT'S THE KEY MOTIVATION TO
CONTINUE AND WORK AND BE AT THE
FRONT LINE.
SO I THINK THAT WE HAVE TO
APPRECIATE, YOU KNOW, THAT
MOTIVATION FROM THEM.
REGARDING TO INTERNATIONAL
STAFF, THE REALITY IS WE DON'T
NEED A SPECIALIST IN
VIRALLOLOGY.
WE NEED HEALTH CARE WORKERS,
NURSES, DOCTORS, BUT AS WELL
LEGISLATION, WATER SANITATION
STAFF WHERE WE'LL BE ABLE TO RUN
AN EBOLA CENTER WITH SAFETY.
BECAUSE THE PARAMOUNT I WOULD
SAY THING ABOUT RUNNING A CENTER
IS PROTECTION OF OUR STAFF.
>> Woodruff: BUT FOR THOSE WHO
COME IN CONTACT WITH THESE
PATIENTS, OF COURSE THERE IS
SOME RISK?
>> THERE IS A MINIMAL RISK, BUT
THE THING IS, IF YOU ARE
FOLLOWING THE RULES, YOU WILL
DECREASE I WOULD SAY
DRAMATICALLY THE RISK.
BUT IT'S LIKE ANYWHERE WHERE WE
GO AS STAFF IN THE 67 COUNTRIES,
Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED THEISK.
FRENCH NAME FOR THE ORGANIZATION
YOU HEAD, DOCTORS WITHOUT
BORDER.
DR. JOANNE LIU, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: THE POLICE SHOOTING OF
MICHAEL BROWN IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI LAST MONTH CAST A HARSH
SPOTLIGHT ON HOW A MAJORITY
BLACK CITY CAME TO HAVE SO FEW
BLACK LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
IN FACT, IN MANY COMMUNITIES
AROUND THE COUNTRY, POLICE, FIRE
AND PARAMEDIC SERVICES REMAIN
PREDOMINANTLY WHITE, NO MATTER
WHAT THE COMMUNITIES THEY
PROTECT LOOK LIKE.
IN OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, A NEW
EFFORT IS UNDERWAY TO CHANGE
THOSE STATISTICS, AND GIVE YOUNG
MEN OF COLOR NEW CAREER
OPPORTUNITIES.
SARAH VARNEY OF KAISER HEALTH
NEWS COLLABORATED WITH THE
NEWSHOUR ON THIS REPORT.
>> 22-YEAR-OLD DEXTER HARRIS,
WHO LIVES WITH HIS AUNT NEAR
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, IS GETTING
READY FOR A 12-HOUR SHIFT AS AN
EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN OR
EMT, AN ENTRY-LEVEL JOB IN THE
PARAMEDIC FIELD.
HARRIS WORKS FULL TIME AND
SUPPORTS HIMSELF AND HIS FAMILY
MEMBERS.
WHEN HE WAS YOUNGER, HIS LIFE
WAS HEADED IN A VERY DIFFERENT
DIRECTION.
>> I THOUGHT I COULD RUN AROUND
IN THE STREETS AND MAKE A LIVING
LIKE THAT.
IF YOU GREW UP, MY HOME WAS
ROCKY.
YOU DON'T HAVE SOMEONE TELLING
YOU, YOU CAN BE WHATEVER YOU
WANT TO BE, A DOCTOR OR A
LAWYER, SO YOU START LOOKING UP
TO THE WRONG PEOPLE.
>> HARRIS SPENT NINE MONTHS IN A
JUVENILE DETENTION CENTER WHEN
HE WAS 17, A COMMON EXPERIENCE
FORY OF COLOR IN
ALAMEDA COUNTY, WHICH INCLUDES
OAKLAND.
HERE BLACK AND LATINO YOUTH
ACCOUNT FOR NEARLY 90% OF THOSE
DETAINED IN JUVENILE HALL.
SCHOOL DROP-OUT AND UNEMPLOYMENT
RATES FOR THAT POPULATION ARE
AMONG THE HIGHEST IN THE
COUNTRY, BUT WHILE HE WAS IN
JUVENILE HALL, HARRIS' LIFE TOOK
A DRAMATIC TURN WHEN HE WAS
RECRUITED FOR A NEW COUNTY
PROGRAM THAT NOT ONLY TRAINED
HIM HOW TO BE AN EMT BUT
PROFOUNDLY ALTERED WHAT HE
THOUGHT HE COULD DO WITH HIS
LIFE.
>> COME ON.
>> ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, FIVE,
SIX.
>> THE PROGRAM IS CALLED EMS
CORPS.
25 STUDENTS IN THE CURRENT CLASS
WERE PRACTICING BASIC LIFE
SUPPORT SKILLS UNDER THE
WATCHFUL EYE OF THEIR
INSTRUCTOR.
>> THE CHEST RISE AND FALLS.
>> SO GO THROUGH.
>> I'M AN EMT.
I'M HERE TO HELP YOU.
>> IT'S AN INTENSIVE FIVE-MONTH
EMT CERTIFICATION FORCE FOR MEN
BETWEEN THE AGES 18 AND 26 WHO
HAVE COMPLETED HIGH SCHOOL OR
EARNED A GED.
>> I FEEL THE HEART.
I MOVE 180 DEGREES.
>> THE PROGRAM SEEKS OUT
STUDENTS WITH DISADVANTAGED
BACKGROUNDS.
MOST ARE AFRICAN AMERICAN OR
LATINO.
THE STUDENTS COMMIT TO 40 HOURS
OF TRAINING A WEEK.
THEY GET A LOT OF HANDS-ON
PRACTICE, LIKE LEARNING HOW TO
OPERATE AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT.
>> WHAT'S THE OXYGEN ON THE
BREATHER MAX?
>> 90%.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND HOW MANY METERS PER MINUTE
WOULD THAT BE?
>> 15.
>> GOOD.
>> THEY ALSO HAVE TO PASS
RIGOROUS ANATOMY TESTS.
>> WHAT HAPPENS WITH OXYGEN AND
CARBON DIOXIDE?
>> DIFFUSION.
THAT OXYGEN
MOLECULE DIFFUSE INTO?
>> PULMONARY CAPILLARY.
>> WE WORKED WITH ABOUT 90 YOUNG
MEN SO FAR.
OUT OF THE 90 YOUNG MEN, I WANT
TO SAY ABOUT 60 OR SO ARE
CERTIFIED EMTs AND WORKING IN
THE FIELD.
>> MICHAEL GIBSON IS THE
DIRECTOR OF EMS CORPS.
HE SAYS HIS OWN EXPERIENCE
SPENDING TIME IN AND OUT OF
JUVENILE HALL HELPS HIM
UNDERSTAND THE CHALLENGES THESE
YOUNG MEN FACE.
>> THEY CAN'T GET A JOB BECAUSE
OF THEIR JUVENILE RECORD OR THEY
DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH WORK
EXPERIENCE.
THEN THEY'RE RIGHT BACK INTO THE
REVOLVING DOOR OF INCARCERATION.
IN OUR PROGRAM, WE WANTED TO BE
ABLE TO ADDRESS THOSE NEEDS, TO
ELIMINATE THE EXCUSES.
YOU NEED A WAY TO GET HERE.
OUR OFFICES ARE DOWN THE STREET
FROM THE STATION.
HERE'S A BART TICKET.
YOU'RE HUNGRY, HERE'S A $20
SAFEWAY GIFT CARD.
THERE'S A $10 SUBWAY GIFT CARD.
NOW YOU CAN EAT.
>> GIBSON SAYS THOSE
DONATIONS MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
BUT WHAT REALLY MAKES EMS CORPS
STAND OUT FROM OTHER YOUTH
VOCATIONAL PROGRAMS IS STUDENTS
ARE PAID TO ATTEND, UP TO $1,000
A MONTH, AND THE EDUCATION THEY
RECEIVE GOES WAY BEYOND CPR.
>> ALL RIGHT.
STAND FOR THE MANTRA.
>> WE HAVE THE COURAGE TO WALK
WHILE OTHERS ARE RUNNING AWAY.
>> EVERY WEEK STUDENTS ATTEND
GROUP COUNSELING AND LEADERSHIP
TRAINING CLASSES.
NEARLY ALL HAVE SUFFERED SOME
TRAUMA IN THEIR LIVES, INCLUDING
DRUG ADDICTED PARENTS AND GUN
VIOLENCE.
VALERIE STREET, THE CORPS'
EXECUTIVE LIFE COURT, PUSHES THE
ICTIMS BUT
INSTEAD TO SET GOALS.
>> WE ARE COMPLETING THE ROAD
MAP THE MANHOOD.
>> ON THE DAY WE VISITED, FIVE
WEEKS INTO THE FIVE-MONTH
PROGRAM, STREET WAS GIVING A
LESSON ABOUT PERSISTENCE.
>> WE DON'T WANT TO BE HIT
COMING UP THE FIELD.
BUT, SEE, THAT'S WHERE THE
RICHNESS IS.
GETTING KNOCKED DOWN AND COMING
BACK UP.
AND KNOWING THAT YOU'RE MAKING
FIVE YARDS, FIVE YARDS, FIVE
YARDS.
>> WHERE IS THE DREAMING?
WHERE IS THE POWER OF WHAT I CAN
BECOME.
IT DOES NOT EXIST IN OUR
COMMUNITIES AND OUR SCHOOLS OR
ANYWHERE ELSE.
THEY NOW KNOW WHO THEY ARE AND
WHAT THEY CAN DO.
FIVE WEEKS OF COACHING PUTS THEM
IN THAT SPATTER.
THAT'S POWERFUL, POWERFUL.
IT'S THE POWER OF THE MIND.
>> THE MEN SAY NO ONE EXPECTED
MUCH FROM THEM BEFORE.
BUT NOW PEOPLE IN THEIR OWN
NEIGHBORHOODS RELY ON THEM
DURING AN EMERGENCY.
>> I'M HAPPY.
I'M ON THE PATH THAT I'M ON
BECAUSE IF IT WASN'T FOR THIS
PROGRAM, I WOULD PROBABLY BE
STUCK IN A BOX WITH A STALEMATE.
>> I KNOW NOW THAT IT DOESN'T
MATTER WHERE I'VE COME FROM AS
LONG AS I'M THE ONE TO MAKE THE
CHANGE IN MY FAMILY.
>> SINCE THE CORPS BEGAN THREE
YEARS AGO, 95% OF THOSE ENROLLED
HAVE GRADUATED.
IT COSTS ABOUT $800,000 A YEAR,
PAID FOR BY LOCAL SALES TAX
REVENUE AND PUBLIC HEALTH FUNDS.
THE ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON
FOUNDATION, WHICH HAS ALSO BEEN
A "NEWSHOUR" FUNDER, PROVIDES
ADDITIONAL REVENUE.
>> JUMPING JAX.
GO!
>> ONE, TWO, THREE...
>> THOSE WHO FINISH RIGOROUS
WORKOUTS AND MEDICAL TRAINING
HAVE TO TAKE A NATIONAL TEST TO
BECOME LICENSED EMTs.
THE CORPS' SUCCESS RATE IS HIGH.
THREE OUT OF FOUR PASS THE E
WHILE THE MAJORITY FIND EMT
JOBS, OTHERS ENTER FIRE
FIGHTING, NURSING OR COMMUNITY
COLLEGE.
GETTING THE MENEM EMPLOYED SOON
AFTER THEY GRADUATE IN THE
COMMUNITIES THEY COME FROM IS A
BIG PRIORITY, SAYS MIKE GIBSON.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE STATS ON
THE EMS WORKFORCE WHERE IT'S
OVER 70 PLUS PERCENT HERE IN
ALAMEDA COUNTY, THAT'S NOT...
THAT'S A DISPROPORTIONATE NUMBER
OF YOUNG MEN OF COLOR BEING LEFT
OUT.
>> HE SAYS SINCE PROGRAM
GRADUATES HAVE STARTED WORKING
LOCALLY AS EMTs AND OTHER
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS, THAT'S
STARTING TO CHANGE.
>> PUBLIC AGENCIES ARE NOW
LOOKING AT THE COMMUNITY IN A
DIFFERENT LIGHT BECAUSE NOW ONCE
THEY SEE THE YOUNG MEN FROM OUR
PROGRAM, THEY WORK TO BREAK DOWN
THE STEREOTYPES THAT SOME FOLKS
MAY HAVE HAD TOWARD YOUNG MEN OF
COLOR, AND AS WELL AS WHAT YOUNG
MEN OF COLOR HAVE TOWARD PUBLIC
AGENCIES.
>> ONE OF THE COMPANIES WHERE
SEVERAL EMS CORPS GRADUATES HAVE
LANDED, INCLUDING DEXTER HARRIS,
IS PARAMEDICS PLUS, WHICH
PROVIDES AMBULANCE SERVICES IN
ALAMEDA COUNTY.
NEW EMTs CAN EARN UP TO
$49,000 A YEAR PLUS PRIZE
BENEFITS LIKE HEALTH INSURANCE.
THE COUNTY REQUIRES PARAMEDICS
PLUS TO SEEK OUT JOB CANDIDATES
FROM IMPOVERISHED NEIGHBORHOODS,
BUT HIRING GRADUATES FROM EMS
CORPS ISN'T A BENEVOLENT ACT.
IT IMPROVES CUSTOMER SERVICE,
SAYS THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
DALE FELDHAUSER.
>> IT PUTS THE PATIENT MORE AT
EASE.
IT MAKES THE EXPERIENCE
SIGNIFICANTLY LESS TRAUMATIC ON
THE PATIENT, WHICH I THINK HAS
HUGE VALUE.
>> WHICH HOSPITAL DO YOU
NORMALLY GO TO?
>> SUMMIT.
>> SUMMIT HOSPITAL?
>> FOR HIS PART, MR. HARRIS SAYS
THIS PROGRAM HAS CHANGED HIM IN
FUNDAMENTAL WAYS.
>> HELPING PEOPLE, IT CHANGES
YOU.
YOU WANT TO HELP PEOPLE.
>> HARRIS IS A VOLUNTEER EMT
TEACHER AT OAKLAND'S JUVENILE
HALL AND HE'S LOOKING THE TAKE
NEXT STEP TO BECOME A PARAMEDIC.
>> Wooduff: A REGION OF THE
PACIFIC OCEAN THREE TIMES THE
SIZE OF CALIFORNIA WILL NOW BE
OFF LIMITS TO COMMERCIAL
ACTIVITY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED AN ORDER
TODAY EXPANDING PROTECTION FOR
WHAT SCIENTISTS SAY IS ONE OF
THE MOST PRISTINE REMAINING
OCEAN ECOSYSTEMS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PACIFIC
REMOTE ISLANDS MARINE PRESERVE
IS FARTHER FROM HUMAN SETTLEMENT
THAN ANY OTHER U.S. TERRITORY.
THE PRESIDENT'S EXPANSION OF THE
RESERVE TODAY WILL CLOSE 490
THOUSAND SQUARE MILES OF LARGELY
UNDISTURBED OCEAN TO COMMERCIAL
FISHING AND UNDERWATER MINING.
THE AREA IS HOME TO THRIVING
COLONIES OF RARE AND ENDANGERED
OCEAN LIFE INCLUDING A RECENTLY
DISCOVERED SPECIES OF WHALE.
JOINING ME NOW TO TALK ABOUT THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF TODAY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT IS ELLIOTT NORSE.
HE IS FOUNDER AND CHIEF
SCIENTIST OF THE MARINE
CONSERVATION INSTITUTE.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FIRST OFF, WHAT IS IN THESE
WATERS?
>> THESE WATERS ARE FILLED WITH
MARINE LIFE.
THEY HAVE EXTRAORDINARY CORAL
REEFS, EXTRAORDINARY BECAUSE
THEY ARE AMONG THE MOST PRISTINE
CORAL REEFS ON EARTH.
THEY STILL HAVE THEIR BIG
SHARKS.
WATERS FURTHER FROM SHORE HAVE
LARGE PREDATORS, INCLUDING TUNAS
BOUND WITH SEA BIRDS, SEA
TURTLES.
THERE'S A SPECIES OF WHALE THERE
THAT WAS DISCOVERED WITHIN THE
WATERS OF THAT MONUMENT JUST
RELATIVELY A FEW YEARS AGO.
IT'S FULL OF LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AREA WAS
DEEMED A MONUMENT BY PRESIDENT
GEORGE W. BUSH.
WHY THE NEED TO EXPAND IT?
>> WELL, PRESIDENT BUSH DID
SOMETHING REALLY VISIONARY IN
2009 BY DESIGNATING IT AS
PACIFIC REMOTE ISLANDS MARINE
NATIONAL MONUMENT, BUT I DON'T
THINK ALL OF THE SCIENTIFIC
INFORMATION WAS TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT AT THAT POINT.
WE KNOW NOW THAT THE SEA BIRDS
THAT FEED THEIR CHICKS IN THEIR
NESTS ON THE ISLANDS FORAGE OUT
TO A DISTANCE IN SOME CASES OF
SEVERAL HUNDRED MILES, AND THEY
NEED TO FIND CONCENTRATIONS OF
FOOD SO THEY CAN GO BACK AND
FEED THEIR BABIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DIDN'T
PRESIDENT OBAMA WANT MORE OF THE
AREA INITIALLY IN THEIR FIRST
PROPOSALS TO BE PRESERVED?
THERE WERE I THINK A COUPLE
AREAS THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
EXPANDED FURTHER TODAY BUT WERE
NOT?
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA WANTED.
HE CERTAINLY SAID THAT HE WAS
INTERESTED IN EXPANDING THE
BOUNDARIES OF THE WHOLE MARINE
NATIONAL MONUMENT, BUT ON THE
OTHER HAND, HE GOT A LOT OF
PUSHBACK FROM ANTI-ENVIRONMENTAL
FORCES THAT SAID THAT THEY
WANTED THESE... THEY DIDN'T WANT
PROTECTION OF THIS AREA.
THEY WANTED IT OPEN TO
COMMERCIAL FISHING FOR TUNAS.
>> SO ABOUT THE CONCERNS THAT
THE COMMERCIAL FISHERMEN OR
FISHERWOMAN, PEOPLE WHO FISH
HAD, THEY SAID THAT THERE'S
ALREADY THE ENDANGERED SPECIES
ACT.
THERE'S THE MARINE MAMMALS ACT.
WHAT DOES THIS KIND OF A
PRESERVATION ACTUALLY DO TO HELP
THESE FISH?
>> WHAT IT MEANS IS THAT THESE
FISH WON'T BE KILLED WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF PACIFIC REMOTE
ISLANDS MARINE NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
AND THAT'S NOT ONLY IMPORTANT
FOR THE FISHES, LIKE TUNAS, BUT
IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT FOR THE SEA
BIRDS, BECAUSE THESE BIRDS
DEPEND ON THINGS LIKE TUNAS TO
DRIVE THE LITTLE FISH THEY EAT
UP TO THE SURFACE WHERE THE SEA
BIRDS CAN GET THEM, CATCH THEM
AND BRICK THEM HOME TO THEIR
BABIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SO DOES THIS
ALSO... THIS ALSO PROHIBTDS
DRILLING AND COMMERCIAL MINING.
ARE THOSE SORTS OF ACTIVITIES
HAPPENING IN THIS AREA NOW?
>> NO, THEY'RE NOT.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF OIL OR GAS
DRILLING WILL EVER BE AN ISSUE
IN THESE PLACES, BUT DEEP-SEA
MINING IS A REAL THREAT TO
MARINE LIFE AND MIGHT HAVE
HAPPENED THERE BUTSIDENT
BUSH'S AND NOW EVEN MORE
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S VISIONARY
ACTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOUNTIONED
COMMERCIAL FISHING.
I JUST WANTED TO COME BACK TO
THAT FOR A SECOND BECAUSE PEOPLE
WHO CATCH FISH GO WHERE THE FISH
ARE.
HOW DO YOU PREVENT THEM FROM
GOING INTO THESE WATERS?
HOW DO YOU ENFORCE THIS?
WE ASKED THE PRESIDENT RECENTLY
ABOUT THE KNEE KNICKS -- PHOENIX
ISLANDS THE SAME QUESTION.
HOW DO WE ENFORCE THIS?
>> THAT'S AN IMPORTANT QUESTION.
I THINK THE UNITED STATES HAS
MEANS AT ITS DISPOSAL THE MAKE
SURE THAT FISHING IS NOT GOING
TO BE HAPPENING, AND IF THE
UNITED STATES DECIDES TO PREVENT
FISHING, WE WILL WATCH AS A
PEOPLE AND MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S NO COMMERCIAL FISHING
GOING ON THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SORT OF A
SIGNAL DOES THIS SEND TO THE
REST OF THE WORLD?
>> I LOVE THE SIGNAL IT SENDS
BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES NOW
HAS PROTECTED MORE OF ITS WATERS
THAN JUST ABOUT ANY OTHER
NATION.
AND THERE ARE OTHER GREAT
NATIONS, CANADA, FRANCE, RUSSIA,
CHINA, THAT HAVE NOT DONE NEARLY
AS MUCH.
THIS SENDS A SIGNAL TO NATIONS
LARGE AND SMALL THAT OUR OCEANS
ARE IMPORTANT, THAT WE NEED TO
PROTECT MARINE LIFE AND WE NEED
TO ACT NOW FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS AS WELL AS OUR OWN.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE'S ALSO A POLITICAL ELEMENT
TO THIS.
THE PRESIDENT ACCOMPLISHING THIS
THROUGH AN EXECUTIVE ORDER.
ON THE ONE HAND, IT SEEMS IT'S
VERY DIFFICULT TO GET ANYTHING
THROUGH WASHINGTON THESE DAYS.
THIS IS SORT OF AN ACT OF
BIPARTISANSHIP AND HE'S
EXPANDING PRESIDENT BUSH'S
INITIATIVE.
>> THIS IS TRUE.
CONGRESS OBVIOUSLY IS BROKEN IN
MANY WAYS.
IT HASN'T BEEN WORKING.
SO PRESIDENTS SINCE TEDDY
ROOSEVELT IN 1906 HAVE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PROTECT PLACES
THAT CONGRESS DIDN'T LEAD ON.
I AM PROUD TO HAVE HELPED
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH DO THIS
IN 2009, ALONG WITH THE
ORGANIZATION THAT I THEN HEADED,
AND NEW I'M PART OF, AND I AM
PROUD THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
DRAMATICALLY EXPANDED
PROTECTIONS IN THIS AREA.
IF CONGRESS DOESN'T DO ITS JOB,
THANK GOODNESS OUR PRESIDENTS
CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: ELLIOTT NORSE,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> PLEASURE TO TALK WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, HOW
HAS BIG MONEY COME TO DOMINATE
POLITICS?
AND WHO IS WRITING THE CHECKS?
IT CAN BE HARD TO TELL, FOR
INSTANCE, THE NEW YORK TIMES
DISCOVERED A GLITCH IN THE
WEBSITE RUN BY THE TAX-EXEMPT
WING OF THE REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS
ASSOCIATION THAT REVEALED THE
NAMES OF PROMINENT CORPORATE
DONORS.
LARGE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
ARE PERFECTLY LEGAL, AND BOTH
PARTIES SOLICIT THEM.
BUT CORPORATE DONORS'S
IDENTITIES ARE USUALLY KEPT
SECRET.
IN THIS BOOK CONVERSATION,
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT A GROUP
OF VERY RICH DONORS WHO'S NAMES
ARE ALREADY WELL-KNOWN.
>> Brown: THE NUMBERS KEEP
GROWING AND THE DOLLARS KEEP
FLOWING.
THIS MID-TERM ELECTION HAS
ALREADY SEEN MORE SPENDING BY
OUTSIDE SPENDING GROUPS THAN ANY
IN HISTORY, SOME $230 MILLION
AND COUNTING, MORE, IN FACT,
THAN ANY ELECTION OTHER THAN THE
LAST ONE FOR THE PRESIDENCY IN
2012.
UNDER CAMPAIGN LAWS,
MUCH OF THIS FUNDING IS NOT
REQUIRED TO BE DISCLOSED, BUT A
LOT OF IT COMES FROM A
RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF THE
VERY WEALTHIEST AMERICANS.
DARRELL WEST, DIRECTOR OF
GOVERNMENT STUDIES AT THE
BROOKINGS INSTITUTION, WRITES OF
THEIR INFLUENCE ON POLITICS IN
HIS NEW BOOK, "BILLIONAIRES:
REFLECTIONS ON THE UPPER CRUST."
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: THE ARGUMENT FIRST
IS THAT BILLIONAIRES AND THEIR
MONEY ARE BIG PLAYERS IN
POLITICS, RIGHT?
HOW BIG AND HOW MUCH INFLUENCE?
>> VERY BIG.
THE KOCH BROTHERS ARE ESTIMATED
TO BE SPENDING $125 MILLION JUST
ON THIS ELECTION YEAR, MUCH OF
IT FOCUSED ON THOSE KEY SENATE
RACES, BUT THEN LIBERAL AND
MODERATE BILLIONAIRES ARE ALSO
AMPING UP THEIR RESOURCES.
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG HAS PUT $50
MILLION INTO FIGHTING THE N.R.A.
AND GUN VIOLENCE.
TOM STIRE IS SPENDING $50
MILLION OF HIS OWN MONEY.
2013 IS SHAPING UP AS THE BATTLE
OF THE BILLIONAIRES.
>> Brown: YOU DOCUMENT THAT
TODAY WE'RE SEEING THESE PEOPLE
PIONEER NEW ACTIVIST MODELS.
WHAT EXACTLY DOES THAT MEAN?
HOW ARE THEY USING THEIR MONEY
IN NEW WAYS?
>> WELL, THE OLD MODEL WAS
BUYING ADS AND TRYING THE
INFLUENCE THE ELECTION.
WE'RE CERTAINLY SEEING A LOT OF,
THAT ESPECIALLY IN THOSE CLOSE
SENATE RACES.
WE'RE ALSO SEEING A LOT OF ISSUE
ADVOCACY, NOT JUST AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL, BUT BILLIONAIRES
ARE CONTENDING STATE REF
REMEMBER THIS ALL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
THEY'RE NORMING NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS AND HAVING THEM
TRY AND INFLUENCE THE PROCESS
AND MUCH OF THAT INFLUENCE TAKES
PLACE IN SECRET.
AND THEN A NUMBER OF THEM HAVE
FOUNDATIONS FOR A VERY
POLITICALLY ACTIVE.
SO WE'RE SEEING A MUCH GREATER
INCREASE IN TYPES OF TACTICS
THAT ARE BEING USED THIS YEAR.
>> ONE PUSHBACK WOULD BE, YEAH,
THERE'S A LOT OF MONEY.
BUT WE SEE AN ERIC CANTOR LOOSE,
RIGHT, IN A PRIMARY TO A FELLOW
WHO NOBODY EVER HEARD OF AND
DIDN'T HAVE MUCH MONEY.
MONEY DOESN'T BUY EVERY RACE IN
THAT KIND OF SENSE.
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY TRUE.
AND BILLIONAIRES HAVE A MIX OF
SUCCESSES AND FAILURES IN TERMS
OF THEIR POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
YOU KNOW, BLOOMBERG, MARK
ZUCKERBERG AND RUPERT MURDOCH
HAVE BEEN TRYING TO PUSH
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
THEY'VE GOTTEN NOWHERE ON THIS.
BLOOMBERG IS TRYING TO GET
CONGRESS TO ADAPT SOME MEASURES
IN TERMS OF FIGHTING GUN
VIOLENCE.
THAT HAS NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL.
BUT WE'RE SEEING BILLIONAIRES
REALLY SPEND A LOT OF MONEY TO
TRY TO INFLUENCE PUBLIC
DISCOURSE, IN MANY CASES THEY'RE
SETTING THE TERMS OF THE DEBATE.
AND CERTAINLY AT THE STATE LEVEL
WHERE YOU OFTEN HAVE ONE-SIDED
TYPES OF CAMPAIGNS, THEY HAVE
BEEN VERY SUCCESSFUL IN A NUMBER
OF AREAS.
>> Brown: ANOTHER QUESTION I
HAVE LOOKING AT THIS, HAVE WE
ARGUABLY BEEN WORST IN THE PAST?
JUST THIS SUMMER I WAS READING A
BECOME ABOUT THE AMERICAN WEST
IN THE EARLY 20th CENTURY
WHERE THE TIMBER INDUSTRY, YOU
KNOW, HAD SO MUCH CONTROL OVER
WHAT WAS HAPPENING.
THE WEALTHY OIL MAGNETS OF THE
TIME, POWER IN POLITICS THROUGH
THEIR MONEY.
>> WELL, THIS IS CERTAINLY NOT
THE FIRST TIME WEALTHY INTERESTS
HAVE BEEN INFLUENTIAL WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT THE CARNEGIE, THE
YEARS AGO.S, THE OTHER BARRONS
THEY WERE VERY INFLUENTIAL AND
IN SOME CASES DICTATED PUBLIC
POLICY.
AFTER WATERGATE WE MADE A
SERIOUS EFFORT TO CLEAN UP THE
POLITICAL PROCESS.
THERE WERE CAPS ON SPENDING.
PEOPLE HAD TO DISCLOSE THE
SOURCES OF THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS,
BUT OVER THE LAST 3 YEARS, THERE
ULES.BEEN GAPING LOOPHOLES IN
SO NOW WE'VE ESSENTIALLY
RETURNED TO THE PRE-WATERGATE
ERA OF BIG MONEY AND GREAT
SECRECY.
AND THIS IS ALSO TAKING PLACE AT
A TIME WHEN WITH NEWS MEDIA ARE
MUCH WEAKER.
SO THEIGHT ORGANIZATIONS
ARE HAVING A DIFFICULT TIME
KEEPING TRACK OF ALL THE MONEY.
>> YOU WRITE THERE ARE OF COURSE
THE IDEOLOGICAL SPLITS THAT YOU
WERE JUST REFERRING TO EARLIER.
BUT YOU ALSO FIND INTERESTINGLY
A LOT OF PLACES WHERE IT LOOKS
AS THOUGH THE SUPER WEALTHY AS A
GROUP ARE SORT OF COHERENT,
COHERE AND HAVE DIFFERENT VIEWS
THAN THE MAJORITY OF MANY
AMERICANS.
>> WE CERTAINLY HAVE LIBERAL
BILLIONAIRES, CONSERVATIVE
BILLIONAIRES AND EVEN
LIBERTARIAN ONE, BUT THE ONE
ISSUE THAT UNITED A LOT OF THESE
PEOPLE WAS THE OPPOSITION TO
RAISING TAXES ON THE WEALTHY.
OBAMA IN 2012 ACTUALLY HAD A
ROUGH TIME GETTING LIBERAL
BILLIONAIRES TO SUPPORT HIM IN
PART BECAUSE SOME OF THESE
PEOPLE DID NOT LIKE HIS RHETORIC
ON RAISING TAXES ON THE WEALTHY.
SO THERE ARE SOMETIMES CLASS
INTERESTS THAT TRUMP IDEOLOGY.
>> Brown: THE CLASSIC IDEA OF
THE AMERICAN DREAM IS THAT
AMERICANS BELIEVE THAT WE CAN
ALL BECOME BILLIONAIRES, AND
THEREFORE DO NOT ENVY THE VERY
RICH.
DO YOU SEE ENOUGH MOVEMENT,
PUBLIC ATTITUDE IN WHAT'S GOING
ON THAT THERE MIGHT... THAT THAT
MIGHT CHANGE, THAT THERE MIGHT
IN FACT BE AN ANGER AND A DESIRE
TO DO SOMETHING?
>> THERE CERTAINLY IS A LOT OF
ANGER AMONG THE GENERAL PUBLIC,
BUT THE PUBLIC CAN'T DECIDE
WHETHER THEY SHOULD BE ANGRY AT
BIG GOVERNMENT OR BIG MONEY AND
CORPORATIONS AND THE
BILLIONAIRES WHO ARE BEHIND
THEM.
SO THAT DIVISION DIFFUSES THE
PU ANGER.
IT'S KIND OF DIVIDE AND CONQUER
SOME WE OFTEN END UP WITH PUBLIC
POLICIES THAT DON'T PROMOTE
OPPORTUNITY IN TERMS OF
EDUCATION, PARTICULARLY
SENSITIVE TO THIS BECAUSE I GREW
UP IN A SMALL TOWN IN OHIO, WAS
RAISED ON A DAIRY FARM.
BUT THROUGH EDUCATION I HAD A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THE NEXT
GENERATION HAS THE SAME TYPE OF
OPPORTUNITY THAT I HAD.
>> SO WHAT DO YOU WANT TO SEE
HAPPEN WITH CAMPAIGN SPENDING
LAWS?
WHAT DO YOU THINK NEEDS TO BE
DONE?
>> WELL, THE BIGGEST THING IS WE
REALLY NEED TO IMPROVE THE
TRANSPARENCY OF THE PROCESS.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE THAT BIG OF
A PROBLEM WITH ALL THE MONEY
THAT'S COMING TO THE POLITICAL
PROCESS.
IT'S THE SECRECY THAT IS MOST
TOXIC.
SO WE NEED TO IMPROVE CAMPAIGN
DISCLOSURE.
IN THE DIGITAL ERA, WE SHOULD
ASK DAILY DISCLOSURE OF CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTIONS INSTEAD OF THE
QUARTERLY NUMBERS THAT WE SEE
TODAY.
THERE ARE TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
THAT CAN IMPROVE THE LEVEL OF
INFORMATION THAT'S AVAILABLE TO
THE AVERAGE VOTER.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL CONTINUE THIS DISCUSSION
ONLINE.
FOR NOW, THE BOOK IS
BILLIONAIRES, REFLECTIONS ON THE
UPPER CRUST.
DARRELL WEST, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE NATION'S FIRST BLACK
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ERIC HOLDER,
RESIGNED AFTER SIX YEARS OF
LEADING THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID HOLDER WILL
STAY ON UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS
CONFIRMED.
EARLIER, AT THE UNITED NATIONS,
THE PRESIDENT APPEALED TO WORLD
LEADERS FOR A FAR GREATER
COMMITMENT AGAINST THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
AIR STRIKES IN SYRIA STRUCK AT
OIL INSTALLATIONS CONTROLLED BY
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES.
PENTAGON OFFICIALS SAID THE AIR
CAMPAIGN STILL HAS MUCH MORE TO
DO.
AND THE DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
VOTED TO TRANSFER DAILY
OPERATIONS BACK TO ELECTED
OFFICIALS ONCE A FEDERAL
BANKRUPTCY COURT APPROVES THE
CITY'S RESTRUCTURING PLAN.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, CAN AN ELECTRO
DEVICE MIMIC THE JOB OF G
TRAINED TO SNIFF OUT CANCER?
WE HAVE A REPORT ON A NEW
TECHNOLOGY DESIGNED TO HELP
DIAGNOSE DISEASE. READ ABOUT
THAT ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Wooduff: ON SATURDAY, MOST
PBS STATIONS WILL MARK AMERICAN
GRADUATE DAY WITH A SPECIAL
BROADCAST, FEATURING INTERVIEWS
WITH EDUCATION SECRETARY ARNE
DUNCAN, AND CELEBRITIES LIKE
TONY BENNETT, AND ACTRESS
ALLISON WILLIAMS, ALONG WITH
MANY OTHERS MAKING A DIFFERENCE
IN THE LIVES OF YOUNG PEOPLE.
ONE OF THEM IS 21-YEAR-OLD SAMIR
MADDEN, A STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA AND
PRESIDENT OF I-CAN.
IT'S A GROUP THAT PROMOTES
EDUCATION AND SUPPORT FOR
CHILDREN WITH TRAUMATIC OR
CONGENITAL AMPUTATIONS.
>> EVERYONE IN MIDDLE SCHOOL IS
TRYING TO FIT IN.
THEY'RE TRYING TO BE NORMAL.
PEOPLE SEE ME AS BEING DIFFERENT
AUTOMATICALLY BECAUSE I'M
MISSING MY ARMS AND I'M MISSING
MY LEG, BUT I HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
SHOW OTHERS THAT WE CAN ACCEPT
EACH OTHER.
AND IT'S TRYING TO TELL THESE
INDIVIDUALS, THESE KIDS, IT'S
LIKE, NO, YOU'RE DIFFERENT, BUT
THAT'S OKAY, AND IT'S GREAT THAT
YOU'RE DIFFERENT, BECAUSE YOU
ARE CONTRIBUTING.
>> I WAS PICKED ON BECAUSE
PEOPLE SAW MY LIMB DIFFERENCES.
FOR EMMANUEL AND OTHERS LIKE
HIM, THEY SEE, I'M NOT THE ONLY
ONE.
YOU'RE MISSING THIS ARM OR
YOU'RE MISSING THAT LEG, BUT
YOU'RE ABLE TO DO THIS MUCH.
THAT GIVES THEM THE CONFIDENCE
TO SAY, OKAY, I CAN DO ANYTHING
I WANT.
WE HAVE TO ACCEPT EACH OTHER.
WHEN WE DO, THEN THE PERSON WHO
IS BEING PICKED ON BECAUSE
THEY'RE DIFFERENT IS ABLE TO
FOCUS ON THE ACADEMICS.
THEY'RE ABLE TO FOCUS ON GETTING
TO KNOW OTHER PEOPLE.
WHEN THEY REALIZE THEY HAVE
EVERYTHING THAT THEY NEED, THEN
THEIR SCHOOL GETS BETTER, AND
THEY START TO MAKE FRIENDSHIPS.
YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE TO SEE
BEYOND THE PHYSICAL STUFF.
KIDS IN HIGH SCHOOL CAN
DEFINITELY GRADUATE.
THEY CAN GO THE COLLEGE.
THEY CAN GET A DEGREE IN
WHATEVER THEY WANT.
AND THAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING.
>> Woodruff: SO INSPIRING.
TUNE IN FOR "THE AMERICAN
GRADUATE" THIS SATURDAY ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.